FIO_INTEGRATION_STATUS.md, before:

# FIO Integration Status

## ✅ Local Development - WORKING

**Status**: Build succeeds, dev server running on http://localhost:3000

### Fixed Issues:
1. ✅ FIO SDK method signature errors
2. ✅ TypeScript compilation errors
3. ✅ Build process now completes successfully
4. ✅ Dev server serving pages (200 OK responses)

### Current Functionality:
- ✅ FIO service initialization
- ✅ Handle availability checking (with proper error handling)
- ✅ Handle registration (basic implementation)
- ✅ Handle validation
- ⚠️ Key generation (temporarily disabled - users must provide existing keys)

### Configuration Required:

Add to your `.env.local`:

```bash
# FIO Protocol Configuration
FIO_API_ENDPOINT=https://fio.greymass.com
FIO_CHAIN_ID=21dcae42c0182200e93f954a074011f9048a7624c6fe81d3c9541a614a88bd1c

# For testing on FIO Testnet (optional)
# FIO_API_ENDPOINT=https://fiotestnet.greymass.com
# FIO_CHAIN_ID=b20901380af44ef59c5918439a1f9a41d83669020319a80574b804a5f95cbd7e
```

### Known Limitations:
1. **Key Generation**: Currently disabled. Users need to:
   - Use existing FIO wallet keys
   - Import keys from FIO wallet
   - Or use FIO's official key generation tools

2. **Network Connectivity**: The FIO SDK requires:
   - Valid FIO API endpoint
   - Internet connectivity
   - Proper CORS configuration (handled by Next.js API routes)

### Testing Locally:

1. **Start dev server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

2. **Test pages**:
   - Dashboard: http://localhost:3000/dashboard (✅ 200 OK)
   - Identity: http://localhost:3000/identity (✅ 200 OK)
   - Ops Console: http://localhost:3000/ops (✅ 200 OK)

3. **Test FIO handle availability**:
   - Navigate to Identity page
   - Enter a FIO handle (format: username@domain)
   - System will check availability via FIO network

### Error Handling:
- ✅ Network errors show user-friendly messages
- ✅ Invalid handle format validation
- ✅ Detailed error logging for debugging
- ✅ Graceful fallbacks for API failures

---

## 🚀 Deployment to Dev Branch

**Status**: Ready to deploy

### Commits Pushed:
1. `bfac4ae` - Fix FIO SDK getFee - use default fee
2. `41a6836` - Fix createPrivateKeyMnemonic parameter
3. `14429bb` - Improve error handling and key generation
4. `3363739` - Disable key generation to resolve build errors

### Next Steps:
1. ✅ Local build verified
2. ✅ Local dev server working
3. ⏳ Amplify build in progress
4. ⏳ Verify production deployment

### Amplify Build Fixes:
- Fixed all FIO SDK method signature errors
- Removed problematic key generation code
- Added proper error handling
- Simplified to core functionality

---

## 📝 Implementation Notes

### FIO SDK Integration:
```typescript
// Initialize FIO service
const fioService = new FIOService();
await fioService.initialize({
  endpoint: process.env.FIO_API_ENDPOINT!,
  chainId: process.env.FIO_CHAIN_ID!,
  publicKey: userPublicKey,
  privateKey: userPrivateKey
});

// Check handle availability
const isAvailable = await fioService.isHandleAvailable('username@domain');

// Register handle (requires keys)
const result = await fioService.registerHandle(
  'username@domain',
  userPublicKey,
  maxFee
);
```

### Error Messages:
- **Network Error**: "Unable to connect to FIO network. Please check your internet connection and FIO API endpoint configuration."
- **Invalid Format**: "Invalid FIO handle format. Must be username@domain"
- **Key Generation**: "Key generation not yet implemented. Please provide existing FIO keys or use the FIO wallet to generate keys."

### Future Enhancements:
1. Implement proper key generation using FIO SDK or external library
2. Add FIO wallet integration
3. Add handle transfer functionality
4. Add domain registration
5. Add FIO request/payment features

---

## 🎯 Success Metrics

- ✅ **Build**: Succeeds locally and on Amplify
- ✅ **Dev Server**: Running without errors
- ✅ **Pages**: All routes return 200 OK
- ✅ **FIO Service**: Initialized and functional
- ✅ **Error Handling**: User-friendly messages
- ⏳ **Production**: Awaiting Amplify deployment

**Last Updated**: October 17, 2025
**Status**: Local development ready, deployment in progress

Commit message:

fix: update FIO API endpoints to verified working mainnet URLs
- Changed from fio.greymass.com to fio.eosusa.io (verified endpoint)
- Updated all FIO API routes (check-availability, lookup, verify, register)
- Added alternative endpoint options in documentation
- Endpoints verified from official FIO Protocol sources
- Resolves 'fetch failed' network connectivity errors

References:
- https://github.com/fioprotocol/fio.chain#api
- https://dev.fio.net/reference/fio-chain-getters-api

FIO_INTEGRATION_STATUS.md, after:

# FIO Integration Status

## ✅ Local Development - WORKING

**Status**: Build succeeds, dev server running on http://localhost:3000

### Fixed Issues:
1. ✅ FIO SDK method signature errors
2. ✅ TypeScript compilation errors
3. ✅ Build process now completes successfully
4. ✅ Dev server serving pages (200 OK responses)

### Current Functionality:
- ✅ FIO service initialization
- ✅ Handle availability checking (with proper error handling)
- ✅ Handle registration (basic implementation)
- ✅ Handle validation
- ⚠️ Key generation (temporarily disabled - users must provide existing keys)

### Configuration Required:

Add to your `.env.local`:

```bash
# FIO Protocol Configuration - Mainnet
FIO_API_ENDPOINT=https://fio.eosusa.io
FIO_CHAIN_ID=21dcae42c0182200e93f954a074011f9048a7624c6fe81d3c9541a614a88bd1c

# Alternative Mainnet Endpoints (if primary fails):
# FIO_API_ENDPOINT=https://fio.greymass.com
# FIO_API_ENDPOINT=https://fio.eosphere.io
# FIO_API_ENDPOINT=https://fio.acherontrading.com

# For testing on FIO Testnet (optional)
# FIO_API_ENDPOINT=https://testnet.fioprotocol.io/v1
# FIO_CHAIN_ID=b20901380af44ef59c5918439a1f9a41d83669020319a80574b804a5f95cbd7e
```

**Note**: The default endpoint is now `https://fio.eosusa.io` which is verified and maintained by the FIO community. See [FIO API endpoints](https://github.com/fioprotocol/fio.chain#api) for more options.

### Known Limitations:
1. **Key Generation**: Currently disabled. Users need to:
   - Use existing FIO wallet keys
   - Import keys from FIO wallet
   - Or use FIO's official key generation tools

2. **Network Connectivity**: The FIO SDK requires:
   - Valid FIO API endpoint
   - Internet connectivity
   - Proper CORS configuration (handled by Next.js API routes)

### Testing Locally:

1. **Start dev server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

2. **Test pages**:
   - Dashboard: http://localhost:3000/dashboard (✅ 200 OK)
   - Identity: http://localhost:3000/identity (✅ 200 OK)
   - Ops Console: http://localhost:3000/ops (✅ 200 OK)

3. **Test FIO handle availability**:
   - Navigate to Identity page
   - Enter a FIO handle (format: username@domain)
   - System will check availability via FIO network

### Error Handling:
- ✅ Network errors show user-friendly messages
- ✅ Invalid handle format validation
- ✅ Detailed error logging for debugging
- ✅ Graceful fallbacks for API failures

---

## 🚀 Deployment to Dev Branch

**Status**: Ready to deploy

### Commits Pushed:
1. `bfac4ae` - Fix FIO SDK getFee - use default fee
2. `41a6836` - Fix createPrivateKeyMnemonic parameter
3. `14429bb` - Improve error handling and key generation
4. `3363739` - Disable key generation to resolve build errors

### Next Steps:
1. ✅ Local build verified
2. ✅ Local dev server working
3. ⏳ Amplify build in progress
4. ⏳ Verify production deployment

### Amplify Build Fixes:
- Fixed all FIO SDK method signature errors
- Removed problematic key generation code
- Added proper error handling
- Simplified to core functionality

---

## 📝 Implementation Notes

### FIO SDK Integration:
```typescript
// Initialize FIO service
const fioService = new FIOService();
await fioService.initialize({
  endpoint: process.env.FIO_API_ENDPOINT!,
  chainId: process.env.FIO_CHAIN_ID!,
  publicKey: userPublicKey,
  privateKey: userPrivateKey
});

// Check handle availability
const isAvailable = await fioService.isHandleAvailable('username@domain');

// Register handle (requires keys)
const result = await fioService.registerHandle(
  'username@domain',
  userPublicKey,
  maxFee
);
```

### Error Messages:
- **Network Error**: "Unable to connect to FIO network. Please check your internet connection and FIO API endpoint configuration."
- **Invalid Format**: "Invalid FIO handle format. Must be username@domain"
- **Key Generation**: "Key generation not yet implemented. Please provide existing FIO keys or use the FIO wallet to generate keys."

### Future Enhancements:
1. Implement proper key generation using FIO SDK or external library
2. Add FIO wallet integration
3. Add handle transfer functionality
4. Add domain registration
5. Add FIO request/payment features

---

## 🎯 Success Metrics

- ✅ **Build**: Succeeds locally and on Amplify
- ✅ **Dev Server**: Running without errors
- ✅ **Pages**: All routes return 200 OK
- ✅ **FIO Service**: Initialized and functional
- ✅ **Error Handling**: User-friendly messages
- ⏳ **Production**: Awaiting Amplify deployment

**Last Updated**: October 17, 2025
**Status**: Local development ready, deployment in progress
